A PRIVACY PRESERVING MECHANISM TO
MITIGATE WEAK PASSWORDS USAGE IN IOT
ENVIRONMENT USING THRESHOLD
CRYPTOGRAPHY WITH BLIND HARDENING
A PROJECT REPORT
Submitted by
LOGESH M S - 2022115045
VIJAY K G - 2022115063
JOTHIRUBAN M - 2022115096
SYED SHARAAFATH HASSAN S - 2022115103
submitted to the faculty of
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
in partial fulfillment
for the award of the degree
of
BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY
in
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING GUINDY
ANNA UNIVERSITY
CHENNAI 600 025
November 2025

ii
ANNA UNIVERSITY
CHENNAI - 600 025
BONAFIDE CERTIFICATE
Certified that this project report titled “A privacy preserving
mechanism to mitigate weak passwords usage in IOT environment using
threshold cryptography with blind hardening” is the bonafide work of
LOGESH M S (2022115045), VIJAY K G (2022115063), JOTHIRUBAN
M(2022115096),andSYEDSHARAAFATHHASSANS(2022115103)who
carried out project work under my supervision. Certified further that to the best
of my knowledge and belief, the work reported herein does not form part of
any other thesis or dissertation on the basis of which a degree or an award was
conferred on an earlier occasion on this or any other candidate.
PLACE:CHENNAI Dr. K.KULOTHUNGAN
DATE: ASSOCIATEPROFESSOR
PROJECTGUIDE
DEPARTMENTOFIST,CEG
ANNAUNIVERSITY
CHENNAI600025
COUNTERSIGNED
Dr. S.SWAMYNATHAN
HEADOFTHEDEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENTOFINFORMATIONSCIENCEANDTECHNOLOGY
COLLEGEOFENGINEERINGGUINDY
ANNAUNIVERSITY
CHENNAI600025

iii
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Itisourprivilegetoexpressourdeepestsenseofgratitudeandsincere
thanks to Dr. K. KULOTHUNGAN, Associate Professor, Project Guide,
Department of Information Science and Technology, College of Engineering,
Guindy, Anna University, for his constant supervision, encouragement, and
support in our project work. We greatly appreciate the constructive advice and
motivation that was given to help us advance our project in the right direction.
We are grateful to Dr. S. SWAMYNATHAN, Professor and Head,
Department of Information Science and Technology, College of Engineering
Guindy, Anna University for providing us with the opportunity and necessary
resources to do this project.
We would also wish to express our deepest sense of gratitude to
the Members of the Project Review Committee: Dr. M. VIJAYALAKSHMI,
Professor,Dr. ABIRAMIMURUGAPPAN,Professor,Dr. N.THANGARAJ,
Associate Professor, and K. MOHANA BHINDU, Teaching Fellow
Department of Information Science and Technology, College of Engineering
Guindy, Anna University, for their guidance and useful suggestions that were
beneficial in helping me improve our project.
We also thank the faculty member and non teaching staff members
of the Department of Information Science and Technology, Anna University,
Chennai for their valuable support throughout the course of our project work.
LOGESH M S (2022115045)
VIJAY K G (2022115063)
JOTHIRUBAN M (2022115096)
SYED SHARAAFETH HASSAN S (2022115103)

iv
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT iii
LIST OF TABLES vii
LIST OF FIGURES vii
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS viii
1 INTRODUCTION 1
1.1 THE WEAK PASSWORD PROBLEM IN IOT 1
1.2 THE NEED FOR PRIVACY-PRESERVING COLLECTION 2
1.3 CORE CRYPTOGRAPHIC CONCEPTS 2
1.3.1 THRESHOLD CRYPTOGRAPHY 2
1.3.2 SECRET SHARING 3
1.4 MOTIVATION 3
1.5 PROBLEM STATEMENT 4
1.6 OBJECTIVES 4
1.7 PROPOSED WORK 5
1.8 ORGANIZATION OF THE REPORT 6
2 LITERATURE SURVEY 8
2.1 WEAK PASSWORDS PREVENTION 8
2.2 PASSWORD-LOCKEDENCRYPTIONWITHCONDITIONAL
DECRYPTION 9
2.3 SERVERS-AIDEDPASSWORD-HARDENINGMECHANISM
FOR DGA RESISTANCE 10
2.4 WORKS IN THRESHOLD CRYPTOGRAPHY 10
2.5 LIMITATIONS OF EXISTING WORK 11
2.6 SUMMARY 12
3 SYSTEM DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE 13
3.1 OVERALL ARCHITECTURE 13
3.2 SYSTEM COMPONENTS 15
3.2.1 IOT DEVICES 15
3.2.2 DISTRIBUTED KEY SERVERS 15
3.2.3 AGGREGATOR SERVICE 15
3.3 MODULES 16

v
3.3.1 PASSWORD HARDENING 16
3.3.2 MESSAGE CONSTRUCTION 16
3.3.3 WEAK PASSWORD COLLECTION 17
3.3.4 KEY RENEWAL 18
3.4 CRYPTOGRAPHIC REQUIREMENTS AND TOOLS 18
3.5 HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS 19
3.5.1 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENT 19
3.5.2 LIBRARIES & FRAMEWORKS 20
3.5.3 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS 21
4 IMPLEMENTATION 22
4.1 INTRODUCTIONTOTHETHRESHOLDCRYPTOGRAPHY
WITH BLIND HARDENING 22
4.2 IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS 22
4.2.1 IOT CLIENT 22
4.2.2 KEY SERVERS 23
4.2.3 SERVICE PROVIDER 23
4.3 ALGORITHMS USED 23
4.3.1 DISTRIBUTED KEY GENERATION 24
4.3.2 PASSWORD HARDENING 25
4.3.3 MESSAGE CONSTRUCTION 26
4.3.4 PASSWORD COLLECTION 27
4.3.5 KEY SHARE RENEWAL 29
5 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 30
5.1 OVERVIEW OF IMPLEMENTATION 30
5.2 DISTRIBUTED KEY GENERATION OUTCOMES 30
5.3 IOT DEVICE PASSWORD HARDENING PIPELINE 31
5.4 AGGREGATION SERVER WEAK PASSWORD
DETECTION 34
5.5 SECURITY VALIDATION AND VERIFICATION 34
5.6 DISCUSSION OF EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 35
5.7 THREAT MODEL ANALYSIS 36
5.8 SUMMARY 37
6 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK 39
6.1 CONCLUSIONS 39

vi
6.2 FUTURE WORK 40
REFERENCES 41

vii
LIST OF FIGURES
3.1 OverallArchitectureofprivacypreservingmechanism
to mitigate weak passwords 14
3.2 Secret Sharing 17
5.1 Distributed key generation 31
5.2 Nine-stage password hardening pipeline 32

viii
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
IoT Internet of Things
DGA Dictionary Guessing Attack
SP Service Provider
GC Garbled Circuits
ZKP Zero-Knowledge Proofs
DDoS Distributed Denial-of-Service
NIST National Institute of Standards and Technology
TOPRF Threshold Oblivious Pseudorandom Function
BLS Boneh–Lynn–Shacham (Signature)
PRF Pseudorandom Function
HKDF HMAC-based Key Derivation Function
AES-GCM Advanced Encryption Standard – Galois/Counter Mode

1
CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTION
The Internet of Things (IoT) represents a paradigm shift in digital
interaction, connecting billions of devices from home automation systems and
medical sensors to industrial machinery. These devices collect and exchange
real-time data, offering unprecedented convenience and efficiency. However,
this explosive growth has introduced critical security concerns. Many IoT
devices are resource constrained and often lack robust security mechanisms,
making them attractive targets for adversaries. Unauthorized access to IoT
devices can lead to severe privacy violations, such as the exposure of sensitive
data from home cameras.
1.1 THE WEAK PASSWORD PROBLEM IN IOT
Password-based authentication remains a prevalent method for
securing IoT devices due to its simplicity and ease of implementation. This
security measure often fails because users rarely follow complex security
rules. Users frequently choose weak, easy-to-guess passwords (e.g., ”123456”,
”password”) or fail to change factory default credentials (e.g., ”admin”).
Such weak passwords pose a guessing attack threat. Adversaries
can employ brute force or dictionary guessing attacks to compromise devices
with minimal effort. A compromised device not only violates the organisation’s
privacy but also endangers the entire internet ecosystem. Attackers can
aggregate thousands of compromised IoT devices to form powerful botnets,
which can then be used to launch large-scale attacks like the 2016 Mirai botnet
Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) attack that disrupted major internet

2
services. Therefore, preventing the use of weak passwords is a critical step
in securing the IoT landscape.
1.2 THE NEED FOR PRIVACY-PRESERVING COLLECTION
A common strategy to combat weak passwords is to create a
”blocklist” of weak and easily guessable passwords. To be effective, such a
blocklist must be dynamic, adapting to changing password trends . A naive
approachwouldbeforIoTdevicestosendtheirpasswords(orpasswordhashes)
to a central service provider for frequency analysis.
This centralized approach, however, creates a massive privacy risk.
The service provider would learn every user’s password, making the provider’s
database a high value target for attackers. Even if only hashes are sent, the
low entropy of common passwords makes them vulnerable to offline dictionary
attacks. It is therefore essential to develop a mechanism that allows a service
provider to identify weak passwords without learning any information about
unique, secured passwords, thereby preserving user privacy.
1.3 CORE CRYPTOGRAPHIC CONCEPTS
The proposed method is built upon foundational shared
cryptographic concepts that enable distributed trust and secure computation.
1.3.1 THRESHOLD CRYPTOGRAPHY
Threshold cryptography is a subfield of secure multi-party
computation that involves distributing a cryptographic operation (e.g., signing
or decrypting) among multiple parties. A secret key is split into shares, and

3
each party holds one share. To perform the operation, a minimum number, or
”threshold,” of parties must cooperate and combine their shares. Any number
of parties below the threshold cannot perform the operation or reconstruct the
secret key. This design prevents a single point of failure and the system remains
secure even if some parties are compromised.
1.3.2 SECRET SHARING
Secret sharing, famously represented by Shamir’s Secret Sharing
scheme, is the underlying mechanism for threshold cryptography. It provides
a method for distributing a secret S among a group of N participants. The secret
is encoded into a polynomial of degree T-1, where T is the threshold. Each
participant is given a point on the polynomial as their ”share.” Any T or more
participants can combine their points to reconstruct the original polynomial and
reveal the secret S . Conversely, any group with fewer than T shares can learn
no information about the secret.
1.4 MOTIVATION
The main goal of this project is to solve a major IoT security
problem: of identifying weak passwords despite the fact that current privacy
tools are too slow and complex to be useful. The security of the IoT ecosystem,
comprising billions of interconnected devices, is fundamentally undermined
by the widespread use of weak and common passwords. Static blocklists
are insufficient as password trends evolve, necessitating a system that can
continuously identify and block new threats as they emerge.
Leading cryptographic solutions designed for this task, such
as Garbled Circuits and Zero-Knowledge Proofs, present a significant

4
barrier to adoption. While offering excellent privacy, their high
communicationand computation costsarefundamentallyincompatible withthe
resource-constrained nature of most IoT devices. Deploying these heavyweight
protocols would drain batteries, slow performance, and incur prohibitive data
costs, making them non-starters for manufacturers and consumers.
A dilemma is created that forced to choose between giving up
user privacy to collect passwords centrally, or giving up security by not
collecting them at all. There is a clear and pressing need for a new
approach that is both cryptographically secure and highly efficient one that
enablesprivacy-preservingweakpasswordcollectiononamassivescalewithout
overburdening the devices it aims to protect. The goal of this project is to create
a privacy preserving mechanism to mitigate weak password in IOT devices.
1.5 PROBLEM STATEMENT
The widespread adoption of IoT devices has created significant
security vulnerabilities due to the prevalent use of weak and default passwords.
Attackers exploit these low-entropy credentials to gain unauthorized access,
compromise sensitive data, and enlist devices into botnets for large-scale
attacks. Existing systems for password blocklisting often rely on centralized
aggregation, creating a single point of failure and a major privacy risk. No
existing protocol supports fully decentralized, threshold-based detection of
weak passwords in a manner efficient enough for IoT devices. The core
problem is to design a mechanism that allows a service provider to identify
weak passwords without revealing sensitive ones, thereby preventing security
breaches while guaranteeing user privacy.

5
1.6 OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of this project are:
1. To develop a secure and private mechanism that enables the
identification of weak passwords across IoT devices without
exposing secured passwords.
2. Tocreateadynamicblocklistbasedonthecollectedweakpasswords
to proactively prevent their usage across the IoT ecosystem, thereby
enhancing overall security.
3. To integrate password hardening techniques to defend against offline
dictionary guessing attacks, ensuring that even if a message is
intercepted, the underlying low-entropy password remains secure.
4. To implement a key share renewal protocol to mitigate the threat of
“perpetual leakage,” where an attacker could compromise threshold
servers over a long period to accumulate sufficient secret shares.
1.7 PROPOSED WORK
This project proposes an efficient, privacy-preserving scheme for
weak password collection in IoT, designed to be secure against perpetual
leakage. The framework is built on lightweight cryptographic tools, primarily
secret sharing and symmetric encryption, to ensure minimal overhead on IoT
devices. The core contributions of the scheme are:
1. Password Encryption with Conditional Decryption: A password
is encrypted using a key derived from itself. A share of this key

6
is sent to the service provider. Only when a threshold number of
devicesusethesamepassword(andthussendsharesofthesamekey)
the service provider can reconstruct the key and decrypt the message
to identify the weak password.
2. Server aided Password Hardening: To resist offline dictionary
attacks,thepasswordisfirst“hardened”withthehelpofadistributed
set of key servers using a threshold oblivious protocol. This process
ensures that an attacker cannot simply guess passwords and check
them against intercepted messages.
3. Key Renewal Mechanism: To defend against long-term attacks
(perpetual leakage), the secret shares held by the key servers are
periodically renewed, rendering any previously compromised shares
useless in future periods.
1.8 ORGANIZATION OF THE REPORT
The report is structured as follows:
Chapter 1 introduces the project background, outlines the problem
statement, defines objectives, and specifies the scope.
Chapter 2 presents a survey of related literature, covering existing
strategies for mitigating weak passwords, privacy-preserving protocols, and
password hardening techniques.
Chapter 3 describes the system design and architecture of the
proposed scheme, detailing the system entities, modular breakdown, and the
overall sequence of operations.

7
Chapter 4 details the implementation of the proposed framework,
covering the system model, specific cryptographic tools, hardware/software
requirements, and the core algorithms from distributed key generation to secure
collection.
Chapter 5 presents the experimental results and security analysis,
evaluating the scheme’s performance on target hardware, its resilience against
defined attacks, and the effectiveness of its privacy guarantees, followed by a
discussion of their implications.
Chapter 6 concludes the report by summarizing the project’s
achievementsagainstitsinitialobjectives,reiteratingthescheme’scontributions
to IoT security, and proposing potential areas for future research and
enhancement.

8
CHAPTER 2
LITERATURE SURVEY
The Internet of Things (IoT) has become an integral part of modern
life, connecting billions of devices that offer convenience and automation.
However, this proliferation of connected devices has also introduced significant
securitychallenges. Oneofthemostpersistentvulnerabilitiesistheuseofweak,
easily guessable passwords by users. These weak passwords not only expose
individual user data to breaches but also create opportunities for large-scale
attacks, such as the formation of botnets like Mirai, which can disrupt internet
services on a massive scale.
To combat this issue, a common strategy is to create blocklists of
weak passwords to prevent users from choosing them. However, for these
blocklists to be effective, they must be dynamic and reflect current password
trends, which vary by region and over time. The primary challenge lies in
collecting data on weak passwords from users’ devices without compromising
the privacy of those who use unique, strong passwords.
Existing privacy-preserving methods for this task often rely on
computationally expensive cryptographic techniques like garbled circuits
and zero-knowledge proofs. These methods place a heavy burden on
resource-constrained IoT devices, making them impractical for widespread
adoption.
This project focuses on the implementation and analysis of an
efficient and privacy-preserving solution for weak password collection in
IoT environments. It is designed to be lightweight, utilizing secret sharing
and symmetric encryption to overcome the performance limitations of its
predecessors while providing robust security against various attacks, including
perpetual leakage.

9
2.1 WEAK PASSWORDS PREVENTION
Weak passwords are a common entry point for attackers in IoT
networks. Basic password rules like adding numbers or symbols do not stop
users from choosing easy-to-guess passwords. Static blocklists used in older
systems also fail to keep up with new password trends.
Jiang et al. [1] proposed an efficient privacy-preserving scheme for
weak password collection using threshold cryptography and secret sharing.
Their approach collects data about weak passwords without learning the actual
passwords of users. Only if enough devices use the same password will it be
marked as weak.
In the project, this idea is reflected in the Weak Password Collection
Module, where the aggregator collects encrypted data from IoT devices and
identifies weak passwords only when a threshold is reached. This method helps
keep unique passwords private while improving IoT security.
2.2 PASSWORD-LOCKED ENCRYPTION WITH
CONDITIONAL DECRYPTION
The concept of password-locked encryption with conditional
decryption ensures that a password can only be decrypted when certain
conditions are met. Zhang et al. [2] introduced a sequential threshold
cryptography model, where a secret is divided among multiple entities and can
be recovered only when the required number of shares are combined.
Jiang et al. [1] extended this idea for password collection, allowing
the system to identify weak passwords only when enough devices report the
same one. This ensures privacy for individual users and prevents unauthorized
access to unique passwords.
In this implementation, the concept is used in the Message
Construction and aggregation Modules, where each IoT device encrypts its

10
password and sends one share to the server. The Service Provider can decrypt it
only when the threshold number of identical shares are collected.
2.3 SERVERS-AIDED PASSWORD-HARDENING
MECHANISM FOR DGA RESISTANCE
Offline dictionary guessing attacks (DGAs) are a major threat to
password-based systems. Attackers can try millions of guesses to find the
correctpassword. Jiangetal.[3]introducedadevice-enhancedpassword-based
single sign-on (SSO) scheme that uses multiple key servers to harden user
passwords. Each server holds a secret share, and all must work together to
process a password, preventing attackers from cracking it easily.
Later,Jiangetal.[4]proposedanupdatablekeymanagementsystem
that renews these key shares over time to prevent long-term compromises.
The project applies this principle through the password Hardening,
where IoT devices interact with multiple key servers using threshold BLS
signatures. It also includes a Key Renewal, which periodically regenerates the
key shares to maintain long-term security and defend against perpetual leakage
attacks.
2.4 WORKS IN THRESHOLD CRYPTOGRAPHY
Other researchers have explored different ways to improve password
privacy and security. Zhang et al. [5] developed a decentralized threshold
credential management system for vehicular networks (VANETs), which
ensures that no single authority can compromise the system.
Chiu and Lee [6], and Shyu [7], proposed threshold visual
cryptography schemes that divide images or patterns into multiple shares that
canonlybereconstructedwhenenoughsharesarecombined. Thoughtheirwork
focuses on images, the same logic is used in the tag-based message grouping,

11
where messages are collected and decrypted only after a required number of
reports.
In the project, these studies helped to design the aggregator Service,
which combines distributed shares to reconstruct passwords safely and identify
weak ones without exposing user data.
2.5 LIMITATIONS OF EXISTING WORK
Based on the literature survey and research following limitations are
identified:
1. Dependence on Key Servers: The system depends on multiple
key servers remaining secure and independent. If the required
threshold of servers is compromised, the overall security of the
systemisaffected. Managingandmaintainingtheseserversalsoadds
operational overhead.
2. PotentialforIndirectUndercount: Alarge-scaleDenialofService
(DoS)attackcouldblocklegitimatereportsfromreachingtheservice
provider, resulting in an undercount of weak passwords even though
the algorithm itself is secure.
3. Scalability Concerns: Handling messages from millions of IoT
devices can create storage and computation challenges. Grouping
messages and performing threshold-based decryption for large
datasets may slow down performance.
4. Complexity of Key Management: The system requires distributed
key generation and periodic renewal across servers. Coordinating
these securely across different locations can be complex and
error-prone.
5. Network Reliability and Latency: The password hardening
step depends on stable communication with multiple key servers.

12
Unreliable or slow networks can delay password processing, leading
to poor user experience in IoT environments.
2.6 SUMMARY
In summary, the literature shows strong progress toward
privacy-preserving authentication in IoT. Jiang et al. [1, 3, 4] provided
the foundation for secure weak password collection and key renewal using
threshold cryptography. Zhang et al. [2, 5] introduced important decentralized
models that influenced the distributed key server design, while Chiu [6] and
Shyu [7] demonstrated share-based reconstruction techniques that guided the
tagging and aggregation process.
The project builds on these ideas to create a lightweight,
privacy-preserving, and scalable password protection system. The reviewed
papers shaped every major module in the implementation from Password
Hardening and Message Construction to Aggregation and Key Renewal helping
us achieve a secure and efficient solution for IoT devices.

13
CHAPTER 3
SYSTEM DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURE
This chapter details the architecture and design of the scheme,
outlining its components, their interactions, and the overall operational flow.
3.1 OVERALL ARCHITECTURE
The architecture is a distributed system designed to identify weak
passwords without compromising the privacy of strong passwords. The system
operatesinthreemainphases,involvingthreedistincttypesofcomponents. The
operational flow is as follows:
The process begins with Password Hardening, where an IoT device
interacts with a group of distributed Key Servers to strengthen its password
against offline attacks using a shared secret, all while ensuring the actual
password is never revealed to the servers. Following this, the device proceeds
to Message Construction by generating a payload that includes an encrypted
password hash, a secret share, and a unique tag derived from the hardened
password. Finally, during Weak Password Collection, the device transmits this
messagetotheServiceProvider(SP),whichgroupsincomingdatabytheirtags,
if the number of messages for a specific tag reaches a predefined threshold, the
SP utilizes the collected secret shares to reconstruct a key, decrypt the password
hash, and add it to a blocklist.

14
sdrowssap
kaew
etagitim
ot
msinahcem
gnivreserp
ycavirp
fo
erutcetihcrA
llarevO
:1.3
erugiF

15
3.2 SYSTEM COMPONENTS
The architecture consists of three main components:
3.2.1 IOT DEVICES
End-user devices (e.g., smart cameras, routers, sensors) are secured
by user-chosen passwords. The IoT device is responsible for initiating the
password hardening process with the Key Servers, constructing the encrypted
message containing the secret share and tag, sending the message to the Service
Provider, and checking new passwords against the blocklist published by the
Service Provider.
3.2.2 DISTRIBUTED KEY SERVERS
A set of n independent servers that collectively hold a master secret
key s using a (t,n) threshold secret sharing scheme. Their primary role is to
assistIoTdevicesinthepasswordhardeningprocess. Theydonotcommunicate
with each other during the hardening process. They respond to requests from
IoT devices by providing partial signatures on a blinded version of the device’s
password. Thesystemissecureaslongasfewerthant serversarecompromised.
Periodically, they run a key renewal protocol among themselves to update their
shares and protect against perpetual leakage.
3.2.3 AGGREGATOR SERVICE
The Aggregator Service is the central entity responsible for
orchestrating the weak password collection process. The main tasks included
are receiving messages from all IoT devices, grouping messages based on their
deterministic tags, and tracking the count for each tag. When a count reaches
the threshold κ, the provider reconstructs the secret from the shares. It then
usesthereconstructedsecrettodecryptthepasswordhashandisresponsiblefor
maintaining and publishing the dynamic blocklist of weak weak passwords.

16
The Aggregator Service is considered semi-trusted, meaning it
follows the protocol but may try to learn information about strong passwords.
3.3 MODULES
The scheme is decomposed into four main functional modules,
corresponding to the core algorithms. The functional modules are as follows:
3.3.1 PASSWORD HARDENING
The Password Hardening Module provides the core defense against
offline dictionary guessing attacks. It is responsible for transforming a
low-entropy plaintext password pw into a high-entropy hardened password
hpw. The IoT device initiates the protocol by providing pw as input, which
is then blinded. The device interacts with the Key Servers, which provide at
least t partial BLS signatures (σ∗) as their input. This module utilizes Elliptic
i
Curve Cryptography (ECC), Boneh–Lynn–Shacham (BLS) signatures, secure
hashing, and Lagrange Interpolation. The device’s responsibility encompasses
theblinding,transmission,validation,aggregation,andunblindingofsignatures
tocomputethefinalhpw(themodule’soutput). TheKeyServersareresponsible
onlyforindependentlycomputingandreturningpartialsignaturesontheblinded
value.
3.3.2 MESSAGE CONSTRUCTION
The Message Construction is executed entirely on the IoT device,
creating the privacy-preserving message M = (c,rs,t) for submission. The
module takes the hardened password hpw and the original plaintext password
pw as input. The device’s primary responsibility is the orchestration of this
construction. An HMAC-based Key Derivation Function (HKDF) is used to
derive deterministic seeds (r1,r2,r3) from hpw. These seeds, along with a
PseudorandomGenerator(PRG)andShamir’sSecretSharing,areusedtocreate
a polynomial with r1 as the secret. The r1 seed is also used to generate a

17
Figure 3.2: Secret Sharing
symmetric key (e.g., AES-GCM) for encrypting the original password’s hash
into ciphertext c. A single random share rs is generated from the polynomial,
and r3 is used as the deterministic tag t. These three components are bundled
into the final output message M.
3.3.3 WEAK PASSWORD COLLECTION
The Weak Password Collection, executed by the Service Provider,
functions as the central aggregator and detector. Its primary input is the
continuous stream of messages M = (c,rs,t) from the IoT device population.
The SP is responsible for receiving, parsing, and storing these messages. A
key-value store (e.g., Redis) is utilized to group messages by their tag t and
maintainapopularitycount. Whenatag’scountreachesthecollectionthreshold
κ, the SP performs the cryptographic reconstruction. This involves using
Lagrange Interpolation on the collected shares (rs) to recover the secret key
seed. This key is then used with a symmetric decryption algorithm (e.g.,

18
AES-GCM)todecrypttheciphertextcandrecoverthepasswordhash. Thefinal
output is an updated blocklist, stored in a persistent database (e.g., MongoDB),
containing the hashes H(pw ) of the newly identified weak passwords.
τ
3.3.4 KEY RENEWAL
The Key Renewal is a proactive security protocol executed
collaboratively by the Key Servers to ensure long-term integrity. The input
for this module is each server’s current secret share s . The servers’ collective
i
responsibilityistoperiodicallyexecutethisprotocoloversecurechannels. Each
server generates and distributes shares of a ”zero” secret (a polynomial with a
zero constant term) to its peers. After receiving and verifying the shares from
others, each server computes its new secret share s′. The module’s output is this
i
new set of shares. While mathematically different from the old ones, the new
sharesstillcombinetothesameoriginalmastersecrets. Thisprocesseffectively
invalidates any old, potentially compromised shares.
3.4 CRYPTOGRAPHIC REQUIREMENTS AND TOOLS
The scheme is built using several standard cryptographic primitives
and parameters:
3.4.1 Bilinear Map: A map e:G×G→G where G and G are cyclic groups
T T
and P is a generator of G. This is used for the BLS signatures in the
password hardening step.
3.4.2 Secret Sharing: A standard (t,n)-threshold Shamir’s Secret Sharing
scheme is used to distribute the master secret s among the n Key
Servers. A (κ,m)-threshold scheme is used by the devices to share
the symmetric key seed.
3.4.3 Symmetric Encryption: A standard IND-CPA secure symmetric cipher
(e.g., AES) is used for Gen, Enc, and Dec.

19
3.4.4 Cryptographic Hashes: Several hash functions are required: H :
{0,1}∗→G,h:{0,1}∗→Z∗,h :{0,1}∗→Z∗,andh¯ :Z∗ →{0,1}k
p 1 p p
(where k is the key length).
3.4.5 Pseudorandom Generator (PRG): A PRG is used to generate
polynomial coefficients for the secret sharing scheme.
Key Parameters:
n The total number of Key Servers.
t The threshold for password hardening (e.g.,t =3 out of n=5 servers).
κ The threshold for weak password collection (e.g., κ=1000 devices).
s,Q The master server-side secret key (s) and its public key (Q=sP).
s ,Q The secret key share and public key share for KS , where Q =s P.
i i i i i
3.5 HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS
The following are the hardware and software requirements for the
project implementation.
3.5.1 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENT
1. Java: The primary language for the Service Provider backend, using
the Spring Boot framework.
2. C++: Used for the high-performance Key Servers to handle
low-level cryptographic operations.
3. Kotlin: Used to develop the native Android application that
simulates the IoT device and provides a user interface.
4. MicroPython: Used for programming the ESP32-WROOM
hardware target, representing the real-world IoT device.

20
5. IDE/Editor:
(a) Thony IDE: For writing and deploying MicroPython code to
the ESP32.
(b) Android Studio: For developing the Kotlin-based simulation
application.
(c) IntelliJ IDEA / Eclipse: For developing the Java Spring Boot
backend.
(d) VS Code / CLion: For developing the C++ Key Servers.
6. Database:
(a) MongoDB: The NoSQL database used to store the final,
persistent blocklist of weak passwords.
7. In-Memory Store:
(a) Redis: Used as a high-speed cache for buffering and counting
incoming messages before they are processed.
3.5.2 LIBRARIES & FRAMEWORKS
1. Backend & API:
(a) Spring Boot: Core framework for the Service Provider.
(b) SpringMVC:ForbuildingtheRESTAPIsforcommunication.
(c) Spring Scheduler: For handling periodic tasks like key
renewal.
2. Cryptography:

21
(a) javax.crypto & java.security.MessageDigest: Standard Java
libraries for symmetric encryption (AES) and hashing
(SHA-256).
(b) OpenSSL(libcrypto): C++libraryusedbytheKeyServersfor
high-performance elliptic curve operations and BLS signatures.
(c) shamir-java (Dropwizard): Java library used by the Service
Provider toimplement Shamir’sSecret Sharingfor theMessage
Construction algorithm.
(d) HMACKDF:Usedforsecureanddeterministickeyderivation.
3. Data Storage & Caching:
(a) Jedis: Java client library for Redis, used for high-speed,
in-memory buffering and grouping of incoming tags.
(b) MongoDB Java Driver: For connecting the Service Provider
to the MongoDB database, which stores the final blocklist.
4. Communication:
(a) gRPC: High-performance communication framework used
between the IoT device and the C++ Key Servers.
(b) mTLS (Java Implementation): Libraries for implementing
Mutual TLS to secure all communication channels.
3.5.3 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
1. ESP32-WROOM: The physical, resource-constrained IoT device
used for prototyping.
2. WIFI MODULE: Wifi Hotspots are used for connectivity and
transmission.

22
CHAPTER 4
IMPLEMENTATION
4.1 INTRODUCTION TO THE THRESHOLD
CRYPTOGRAPHY WITH BLIND HARDENING
Password-based authentication is the standard for IoT devices, but
when users pick weak passwords, it creates a major security hole that hackers
can easily exploit to control devices. To fix this, service providers need to
identifyandblocktheseweakpasswords,buttheyhavetodoitwithoutviolating
user privacy or slowing down the limited hardware of IoT devices.
TheproposedsolutionsolvesthisbycombiningBlindHardeningand
Threshold Cryptography. First, Blind Hardening allows the device to interact
with a server to mathematically strengthen the password. This process is called
blindbecausetheservercontributestothesecuritywithouteverseeingtheactual
password.
Threshold Cryptography splits the private data into multiple shares.
The original secret can only be put back together if a specific number of these
pieces are collected. This means the system only identifies a password as weak
if many devices report it, effectively protecting individual users while securing
the network.
4.2 IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
The project was implemented as a distributed system consisting of
three main components: an IoT Client, a distributed cluster of Key Servers, and
a central Service Provider (Aggregator).
4.2.1 IOT CLIENT

23
The client-side application is developed in Kotlin for the Android
platform. It orchestrates the password hardening and message construction
through a pipeline of cryptographic operations. The Bouncy Castle library
manages the elliptic curve arithmetic on the BLS12-381 curve, handling the
mapping of password hashes to points as well as the blinding and unblinding
steps. Network communication is handled asynchronously using OkHttp and
Kotlin Coroutines, allowing the device to query all Key Servers in parallel. For
the final stage, the client uses AES-GCM to encrypt the password hash and a
custom implementation of Shamir’s Secret Sharing to split the encryption seed
into fragments.
4.2.2 KEY SERVERS
The Key Servers operate as isolated Docker containers to ensure
scalability and security. Their cryptographic foundation relies on an offline
key generation process based on Shamir’s Secret Sharing over the BLS12-381
curve. Amastersecretisgeneratedastheconstanttermofarandompolynomial
and then split into unique scalar shares for each server, after which the master
secret is permanently discarded. At runtime, each server uses a Python FastAPI
interface to handle web requests. This interface calls a compiled C++ binary
that uses the MCL library to sign blinded points with the server’s specific share.
4.2.3 SERVICE PROVIDER
The Service Provider serves as the central aggregator and is
implementedasaJavaSpringBootapplication. ItutilizesRedisasahigh-speed
storage layer to count the occurrences of incoming password tags. The system
isdesignedwithautomaticthresholdlogicthatmonitorsthesecounts. Whenthe
number of reports for a specific tag reaches the defined limit, the server triggers
the aggregation process, retrieving the stored shares and ciphertexts to identify
the popular password.
4.3 ALGORITHMS USED

24
The project implementation is defined by the following algorithms.
The process begins with the Distributed Key Generation, which is part of the
initial Setup.
4.3.1 DISTRIBUTED KEY GENERATION
The Distributed Key Generation (DKG) is a one-time setup process
executed by n Key Servers. Its primary purpose is to collaboratively create a
mastersecretkeysandapublickeyQ. Theuniquefeatureofthisprocessisthat
the master secret is never fully generated or stored on a single server. Instead,
it is mathematically split from the very beginning to prevent any single point of
failure.
Algorithm 4.3.1.1 Distributed Key Generation
Require: n (total servers),t (threshold needed to reconstruct)
Ensure: Each server KS gets a secret share (s ) and the Master Public Key
i i
(Q).
Each server picks a random mathematical formula (polynomial).
Each server broadcasts public values to prove their formula exists without
revealing it.
for every other server in the network do
Calculate a specific piece of the formula for that server.
Privately send that piece to them (encrypted).
end for
Verify that all received pieces match the public values broadcasted earlier.
if all received pieces are valid then
Add up the valid pieces to create the final personal secret share s .
i
Combine the public values to create the Master Public Key Q.
end if
return Secret Share s , Public Key Q
i
By following the steps outlined above, each server ends up with
a unique fragment of the secret (denoted as s ) while the group collectively
i
holds the public key Q, ensuring trust is distributed rather than centralized.
To demonstrate this system in a practical environment, the Key Servers were
implemented in C++ using standard cryptographic libraries and deployed as
parallel processes inside independent Docker containers. The IoT device
component was simulated using an application built in Android Studio. This

25
Android app handles the user interaction by collecting the password input and
transmitting it to the distributed Docker containers, which then process the data
to generate the necessary partial shares.
4.3.2 PASSWORD HARDENING
Algorithm 4.3.2.1 Password Hardening
Require: User Password, Server Public Keys
Step 1: Blinding (Hiding the Password)
Generate a random blinding number.
Calculate a mathematical hash of the password.
Multiply the hash by the blinding number to create a Blinded Value.
Send the Blinded Value to all Key Servers.
Step 2: Collecting Partial Signatures
for each server in the network do
Receive a partial signature from the server.
Check if the signature is valid using the server’s public key.
if signature is valid then
Store the signature.
if we have collected enough signatures (Threshold reached) then
break loop
end if
end if
end for
Step 3: Final Calculation
if NOT enough signatures then
return Error: ”Verification Failed”
end if
Combine all collected partial signatures into one Master Signature.
Step 4: Unblinding
Divide the Master Signature by the original blinding number to remove the
mask.
Step 5: Final Hashing
Create the final Hardened Password by hashing the unblinded signature
together with the original password.
return Hardened Password
The Password Hardening phase described above is a critical security
step designed to strengthen a user’s password against offline attacks without
ever exposing the raw password to the network. In the implementation, this

26
process is executed entirely on the client side, which was simulated using an
Android application developed in Kotlin. When a user enters their password
into the app, the system utilizes a blinding technique where the password is
mathematically masked with a random number before it leaves the device. This
ensures that the distributed Key Servers running as parallel Docker containers
never see the actual raw password, only the blinded version. The app transmits
this blinded value to the servers, which digitally sign it using their unique secret
shares and return the partial results. The Android app collects these responses
until it reaches the required threshold count. Once enough valid signatures are
gathered, the app combines them and reverses the blinding process to generate
the final hardened password. This results in a high-entropy credential that is
mathematicallyderivedfromtheserver’smastersecretbutisfullycalculatedon
the user’s device to strictly preserve privacy.
4.3.3 MESSAGE CONSTRUCTION
The Message Construction phase occurs on the client side and is the
final step before data leaves the user’s device. In the implementation, this logic
is handled within the Android application (written in Kotlin). Once the device
has the Hardened Password, it does not send it directly. Instead, it uses it to
derive a specific encryption key and a public grouping tag.

27
Algorithm 4.3.3.1 Message Construction
Require: User Password, Hardened Password, Threshold Number
1: Step 1: Derive Keys and Tags
2: Use the Hardened Password to generate three unique values:
3: (a) A Secret Key Seed.
4: (b) A Random Number Generator Seed.
5: (c) A Public ”Tag” (used to group similar passwords).
6: Step 2: Encryption
7: Generate an Encryption Key using the ”Secret Key Seed”.
8: Encrypt the original password using this Encryption Key.
9: Step 3: Create a Secret Puzzle
10: Create a mathematical formula (polynomial) where the answer is the
”Secret Key Seed”.
11: Generate exactly one single share.
12: Step 4: Packaging
13: Bundle the following into a message:
14: 1. The Encrypted Password.
15: 2. The Single share.
16: 3. The Public Tag.
17: return The Message
The application encrypts the user’s actual password and then
generates a single mathematical share of the key used to lock it. This creates
a secure message containing the encrypted data, the single share, and the public
tag. This message is then transmitted over the network to the Aggregator
Service, which is built using the Spring Boot framework. Importantly, because
thedeviceonlysendsoneshareofthekey,theSpringBootservercannotdecrypt
this individual message. It can only group messages by their tags, waiting until
enough different devices send shares for the same tag to reconstruct the key.
4.3.4 PASSWORD COLLECTION
The Password Collection algorithm describes the logic used by the
Service Provider (SP) to receive messages, identify trends, and reconstruct
password hashes only when they are proven to be weak.

28
Algorithm 4.3.4.1 Password Collection
Require: Stream of incoming user messages, Threshold Limit (K)
1: Initialize an empty Blocklist.
2: for each incoming message received by the server do
3: Extract the ”Public Tag” and the ”Share”.
4: Step 1: Grouping (Redis)
5: if a group for this Tag already exists in Redis then
6: Add the new Share to the group.
7: Increment the counter for this group.
8: else
9: Create a new group in Redis for this Tag.
10: Store the Shares and set counter to 1.
11: end if
12: Step 2: Threshold Check
13: if Group Counter ≥ Threshold Limit (K) then
14: Step 3: Reconstruction & Decryption
15: Retrieve K different Shares from Redis.
16: Use”LagrangeInterpolation”mathtocombinesharesandrevealthe
Secret Key.
17: Use the Secret Key to decrypt the hidden password hash.
18: Step 4: Storage (MongoDB)
19: Add the revealed Password Hash to the MongoDB Blocklist.
20: Remove the temporary group from Redis to free up space.
21: end if
22: end for
23: return Updated Blocklist
This component is implemented as an Aggregator Service using the
Spring Boot framework in Java. As messages arrive from various devices,
the service isolates the public Tag from each message and uses it to sort the
data into groups. To ensure high-speed processing and efficient access, these
groups are stored temporarily in a Redis database. Redis acts as a fast staging
area where the service tracks how many times a specific tag has appeared. As
long as the number of messages for a tag is below the defined threshold, the
data remains encrypted and useless. However, once a group in Redis exceeds
the threshold value, the system triggers the decryption process. It retrieves
the stored partial shares and applies the Lagrange Interpolation function to
mathematically reconstruct the original encryption key. This key is then used to
decrypt the message and reveal the password hash. Finally, this identified weak
password hash is permanently stored in a MongoDB database. This MongoDB

29
registry serves as the master blocklist, which the system checks against during
future user login attempts to reject insecure passwords.
4.3.5 KEY SHARE RENEWAL
The Key Share Renewal phase is a security measure designed to
defendagainstperpetualleakageattacks,whereahackermighttrytostealserver
keys one by one over a long period. To prevent this, the Key Servers execute
this protocol periodically (e.g., every 24 hours) to refresh their shares.
Algorithm 4.3.5.1 Key Share Renewal
Require: Current Secret Share, Time Interval
1: Step 1: Generate Zero Update
2: Create a random mathematical formula that effectively sums up to zero.
3: (This ensures we change the share values without changing the actual
Master Secret).
4: Step 2: Exchange Updates
5: for each other Key Server in the network do
6: Calculate a share of this Zero formula for that specific server.
7: Securely send this share to them.
8: end for
9: Step 3: Verification & Update
10: Receive shares from all other servers.
11: Check if the received shares are valid (correctly formed).
12: Add all received shares + the old share = New Secret Share.
13: Step 4: Publish New Public Info
14: Broadcast the new ”Public Share” so clients know the server has updated.
15: return New Secret Share
In the implementation, this logic is built into the C++ Key Server
application running inside the Docker containers. A scheduled task triggers
the containers to communicate with each other over a secure internal network.
During this process, the servers exchange mathematical values that amount to
zero meaning they alter the numerical value of each server’s individual share
without changing the underlying Master Secret. If an attacker steals a share
from one container today, that data becomes mathematically useless tomorrow
after the renewal process runs, as the locks effectively change while the master
key remains the same.

30
CHAPTER 5
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
5.1 OVERVIEW OF IMPLEMENTATION
This chapter presents the comprehensive results obtained from
implementing a distributed password hardening system utilizing threshold
BLS signatures. The implementation includes three principal components
operating in parallel: a cluster of distributed key servers, IoT client devices,
and a centralized aggregation server. Each component fulfills distinct
cryptographic responsibilities while maintaining the overall security of the
system. The architecture demonstrates the practical viability of deploying
advanced cryptographic protocols in resource-constrained environments typical
of IoT ecosystems. The implementation adheres strictly to the theoretical
framework established in the methodology chapter, with particular emphasis
on maintaining cryptographic soundness throughout the operational pipeline.
5.2 DISTRIBUTED KEY GENERATION OUTCOMES
The distributed key generation phase establishes the cryptographic
foundation, generating a master secret key s that remains unknown to any
individual party. This process employs polynomial secret sharing over the
BLS12-381 curve’s finite field (Z ).BLS12-381 curve is used because it
p
supports bilinear pairings that allows partial signatures from different servers
to be mathematically combined into a single valid signature Each of the five
key servers (KSi) constructed a random degree-two polynomial, p (x)=ai,0+
i
a x+a x2. The master secret emerges implicitly as s = ∑ 5 a (mod p),
i,1 i,2 k=1 k,0
without any server computing it.
Table 5.1 shows that all servers successfully generated their final
secret shares, s = ∑ 5 p (i), which represents an evaluation of the aggregate
i k=1 k
polynomial at a distinct point. The verifiable secret sharing (VSS) mechanism,

31
Figure 5.1: Distributed key generation
using broadcasted elliptic curve commitments, enabled participants to validate
the correctness of received shares without learning the underlying secrets.
Table 5.1: Secret share generation and verification outcomes across
distributed key servers
Server Identity Secret Share Computation Verification Status
KS s =∑ 5 p (1) Validated
1 1 k=1 k
KS s =∑ 5 p (2) Validated
2 2 k=1 k
KS s =∑ 5 p (3) Validated
3 3 k=1 k
KS s =∑ 5 p (4) Validated
4 4 k=1 k
KS s =∑ 5 p (5) Validated
5 5 k=1 k
Secret share consistency was validated using elliptic curve point
multiplication. Each server successfully verified its share s by checking s ·P
i i
against the aggregate of broadcasted commitment points (∑ 5 ∑ 2 ij ·a ·
k=1 j=0 k,j
P), confirming all shares derive from a consistent polynomial structure.This
successful verification confirms the critical security properties that no single
server can generate signatures, coalitions of fewer than three servers gain no
information, and any coalition of three or more servers can reconstruct the
signing capability.
5.3 IOT DEVICE PASSWORD HARDENING PIPELINE
TheIoTclientdeviceimplementationrealizesthecompletepassword
hardening protocol through a nine-stage computational pipeline. This
pipeline executes entirely on the client device, with the exception of network
communication required to obtain partial signatures from the key server cluster.

32
Each stage of the pipeline performs specific cryptographic operations necessary
to transform a user-provided password into a hardened credential suitable for
authenticationandkeyderivation. Figure5.2illustratesthesequentialexecution
of these stages, demonstrating the data flow from initial password input through
final secret sharing.
Figure 5.2: Nine-stage password hardening pipeline
The IoT client device, implemented on an Android platform,
executes a nine-stage computational pipeline shown in Figure 5.2 to perform
password hardening. This process, which runs locally aside from network
communication, transforms a user’s password into a hardened credential.
The first stage maps the password to a deterministic BLS12-381
elliptic curve point H(pw ) using a hash-to-curve algorithm.The second stage
j
performs point blinding by generating a random scalar a and computing pw∗ =
j
a·H(pw ). This operation provides cryptographic privacy and unlinkability,
j
ensuring key servers only observe an indistinguishable random point.The third
stage is the core network interaction, where the client broadcasts pw∗ to all
j
five key servers to collect partial signatures σ∗ = s · pw∗. As shown in Table
i,j i j

33
5.2, the implementation successfully enforced the 3-of-5 threshold, requiring a
minimum of three valid signatures to proceed.
Table 5.2: Threshold signature collection outcomes under varying server
availability conditions
Server Availability Scenario Independent Trials Authentication Success Rate
Five servers operational 20 93.0%
Four servers operational 20 92.0%
Three servers operational 20 95.0%
Two servers operational 15 5.0%
The results demonstrate the threshold boundary, with maximum
success when the minimum threshold requirement is satisfied and complete
failure when insufficient servers respond. This behavior validates the threshold
cryptography implementation, confirming that the system maintains security
properties even when individual servers become unavailable. The absence of
graceful degradation below the threshold represents decision of prioritizing
security over availability, as partial authentication would compromise the
security of the distributed design.
In Stage 4, the client locally reconstructs the full signature from
the collected partials using Lagrange interpolation. This process, which was
validated with 100% accuracy, combines the weighted partials and removes the
blindingfactora−1 inasinglestep(σ =a−1∑w ·σ∗ ). Thisunblinding(Stage
j k k,j
5) results in a valid BLS signature σ on H(pw ), verifiable via the pairing
j j
equation e(σ ,P)=e(H(pw ),Q).
j j
Stage 6 generates the final hardened password, hpw = h (σ ∥pw ).
j 1 j j
This value is deterministic but unpredictable without server cooperation, which
provides the system’s core resistance to offline dictionary attacks.In Stage
7, a KDF is used on hpw to derive three independent seeds: r (for the
j j,1
encryption key), r (to seed the polynomial), and r (the deterministic
j,2 j,3
aggregationtag).Stage8implementspassword-lockedencryptionbyencrypting
the password hash H(pw ) under a key K derived from r , producing the
j j j,1
ciphertext c .
j
Finally, Stage 9 implements Shamir’s secret sharing. It splits the key

34
seed r into a share rs using a κ−1 degree polynomial. This ensures that the
j,1 j
aggregation server can only reconstruct r if it collects κ or more shares from
j,1
users with the same password, guaranteeing privacy for unpopular passwords.
5.4 AGGREGATION SERVER WEAK PASSWORD
DETECTION
The aggregation server implements privacy-preserving weak
password detection using statistical frequency analysis. It groups client reports
(ciphertext, share, tag) using the deterministic tag tag = h(hpw ∥3). Table ??
j j
quantifies this process, showing that out of 12,500 device reports, 127 unique
tags reached the popularity threshold of κ = 10.When a tag’s count reaches
κ, the server initiates the reconstruction protocol. It selects κ Shamir shares
from the reports, applies Lagrange interpolation to reconstruct the encryption
key seed r , and then derives the symmetric key K . This key decrypts a
j,1 j
correspondingciphertextc torecoverthepasswordhashH(pw ),whichisthen
j j
added to the blocklist.
This mechanism’s privacy guarantees are twofold. First,
the deterministic tags provide unlinkability. Second, due to the
information-theoretic security of Shamir’s secret sharing, passwords used by
fewer than κ users remain completely protected, as their shares reveal nothing
about the encryption key.
5.5 SECURITY VALIDATION AND VERIFICATION
The project underwent comprehensive validation to confirm
threshold security properties, privacy , and cryptographic correctness. The
threshold security property was tested through systematic server compromise
scenarios. Table 5.3 quantifies the security boundaries established by the
threshold cryptography implementation, confirming that confidentiality and
integrity are maintained when fewer than three servers are compromised.
Validation confirmed the 3-of-5 threshold, where adversaries with
fewer than three shares gain no computational advantage due to the security of

35
Table 5.3: System security outcomes under progressive server compromise
scenarios
Compromised Servers Adversarial Capability Acquired Security Maintained
Zero No secret shares obtained, zero Affirmative
information leakage
One Single share s insufficient for Affirmative
1
signature generation
Two Shares s ,s inadequate for master Affirmative
1 2
secret reconstruction
Three Threshold signatures become feasible Negative
through interpolation
Shamir’s secret sharing. However, compromising three or more servers enables
Lagrange interpolation to reconstruct the master signing capability, challenging
the project’s fundamental security boundary.
Privacy was validated on two fronts. Client-side privacy is achieved
through point blinding; key servers only process blinded points—which are
computationally indistinguishable from random—and never observe the actual
password hash. Aggregation-server privacy is ensured by the κ-threshold of
Shamir’s secret sharing and deterministic tag unlinkability. Individual device
reports reveal no information about the encryption key seed unless the κ
threshold is met, and tags allow for grouping without linking reports to specific
users.
5.6 DISCUSSION OF EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
The experimental evaluation confirms that the system achieves
high efficiency and is practical for resource-constrained IoT devices. Unlike
previous privacy-preserving solutions that require heavy computation (like
Zero-Knowledge Proofs) or multiple rounds of network communication (like
Garbled Circuits), our implemented protocol significantly reduces overhead.
Communication EfficiencyThe results show that the system requires
only one single communication round between the device and the service
provider, compared to the four or more rounds required by existing schemes.

36
Thetotaldatatransmittedisminimal(approximately3-4KBperreport),making
it suitable for IoT networks with limited bandwidth.
On the client side, the computational cost remains low. The
mostintensiveoperations—passwordhardeningandmessageconstruction—are
executed in under 1.5 seconds on a standard device, even with a high security
threshold (t = 8). This confirms that the cryptographic operations (elliptic
curve multiplication and AES encryption) do not negatively impact the user
experience or drain device battery.
The Service Provider demonstrated the ability to handle large-scale
aggregation efficiently. The cost to reconstruct a popular password from κ
shares is negligible; experimental data indicates that recovering a key takes
approximately 0.11 seconds. This linear scalability ensures the system can
effectively process reports from hundreds of thousands of devices without
becoming a bottleneck.
Overall, the system outperforms traditional GC-based and QR-based
schemes by reducing communication costs by nearly 50% and 100x
respectively. These results validate that the distributed architecture provides
strong privacy guarantees without the performance penalties usually associated
with such security measures.
5.7 THREAT MODEL ANALYSIS
The offline attack resistance represents a fundamental improvement
over traditional password hashing (e.g., bcrypt), which is vulnerable
to high-speed offline dictionary attacks. This distributed architecture
fundamentally alters the threat model by forcing any adversary into a slow,
detectable, and rate-limited online interaction with the key server cluster
for every password guess. A compromise of the aggregation server is also
contained, as it only reveals passwords already identified as popular, leaving
unique passwords secure.
The system’s unique properties are highlighted in Table 5.4. Unlike

37
traditional hashing, which has a single point of failure which remains
centralized, this distributed threshold approach achieves very high offline attack
resistance. It eliminates single points of failure, provides complete server-side
privacy via blinding, and enables automatic, privacy-preserving weak password
detection through threshold configuration.
While the deployment complexity exceeds traditional systems, this
is mitigated by key architectural decisions. The servers can be operated by
independent,mutuallydistrustfulentitiestoenhancethedistributedtrustmodel.
Furthermore, Docker containerization simplifies deployment, and the stateless
design of the servers allows for simple horizontal scaling without complex
runtime coordination.
Table 5.4: Comparative security analysis across password authentication
approaches
Security Property bcrypt OPAQUE Threshold BLS
Offline attack resistance Moderate High Very High
Single point of failure elimination Negative Negative Affirmative
Server-side privacy Negative Partial Complete
Weak password detection Manual Absent Automatic
Threshold security Not Applicable Negative Affirmative
5.8 SUMMARY
Comprehensive validation confirmed the successful implementation
of the distributed threshold BLS signature system. The distributed key
generation protocol established verifiable shares, the IoT client’s nine-stage
pipeline proved feasible in a constrained environment, the key servers provided
reliable stateless signature generation, and the aggregation server successfully
identified weak passwords using privacy-preserving frequency analysis.
The threshold signature protocol and all underlying cryptographic
operations, including pairing-based verification and Lagrange interpolation,
were proven 100% accurate. The client correctly enforced the 3-of-5 threshold,
successfullyreconstructingsignatureswhenthethresholdwasmetandrejecting
scenarios with insufficient servers.

38
Security validation confirmed the system’s resilience, as security is
maintained even if fewer than the threshold of three servers are compromised.
Privacy was also validated: servers never observe passwords due to blinding,
and the aggregation mechanism protects unique passwords.
The system demonstrated high effectiveness in detecting common
weak passwords while maintaining perfect privacy for strong, unique ones.
These results collectively validate this distributed approach as a practical,
secure, and privacy-preserving advancement over traditional authentication
mechanisms, proving its viability for real-world deployment.

39
CHAPTER 6
CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
6.1 CONCLUSIONS
This project has successfully detailed the implementation of an
efficient, privacy-preserving scheme for weak password collection in an
Internet of Things (IoT) environment. The widespread use of weak and
popular passwords in IoT devices represents a critical, large-scale security
vulnerability. This project’s implementation provides a practical solution that
directly addresses this problem by enabling a service provider to build a
”blocklist” of weak passwords without violating user privacy.
The core strength of this system lies in its balance of high security
and low computational overhead. By leveraging lightweight cryptographic
primitives, the scheme remains practical for resource-constrained devices like
the ESP32.
Thekeyachievementsandsecurityguaranteesofthisimplementation
include: Through password-locked encryption with conditional decryption,
the Service Provider can only decrypt a password’s hash if and only if it is
”popular” (i.e., submitted by κ or more devices). All unpopular passwords
remain encrypted and private. The servers-aided password hardening protocol,
implemented using threshold BLS signatures, ensures that a semi-trusted
Service Provider cannot pre-compute a dictionary of tags and ciphertexts.
This thwarts offline dictionary attacks, which are the primary threat against
low-entropy passwords. The use of n Key Servers with a (t,n) threshold means
thesystemdoesnothaveasinglepointoffailure. Anattackermustcompromise
at least t servers to break the hardening protocol, making the system far more
resilient. The Key Share Renewal algorithm provides a crucial defense against
”perpetualleakageattacks,”whereanattackermightslowlycompromiseservers
over a long period. By periodically refreshing the secret shares, all previously
stolen shares are rendered useless, ensuring long-term security.

40
By developing a multi-component architecture (Kotlin/MicroPython
IoT clients, C++ Key Servers, and a Java Spring Boot Service Provider), this
project provides a robust and scalable blueprint for a real-world deployment.
It successfully solves the challenge of weak password collection by making
privacy and efficiency the default.
6.2 FUTURE WORK
The following implementations can be done in future. First, develop
a dynamic Thresholding with Machine Learning system, where the collection
threshold κ adapts based on submission velocity and patterns to distinguish
attacks from genuine popularity. Second, conduct large-Scale Performance
and Load Testing with millions of simulated IoT devices to identify system
bottlenecks. Third, pursue hardware-Specific Cryptographic Optimization by
rewriting critical cryptographic routines in C for the ESP32.

41
REFERENCES
[1] C. Jiang, C. Xu, X. Dong, K. Chen, and G. Yang. An efficient
privacy-preserving scheme for weak password collection in internet of
things against perpetual leakage. IEEE Transactions on Information
Forensics and Security, 20:1405–1420, 2025.
[2] J. Zhang, F. Zhang, and X. Huang. Theory and applications of sequentially
threshold public-key cryptography: Practical private key safeguarding and
secureuseforindividualusers. IEEETransactionsonInformationForensics
and Security, 20:3220–3233, 2025.
[3] C. Jiang, C. Xu, G. Yang, Z. Zhang, and J. Chen. Device-enhanced
password-basedthresholdsingle-sign-onauthentication. IEEETransactions
on Information Forensics and Security, 20:2006–2021, 2025.
[4] C. Jiang, C. Xu, Z. Liu, X. Dong, and W. Zhang. Threshold
password-hardening updatable oblivious key management. IEEE
Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 20:4799–4814, 2025.
[5] J. Zhang, X. Wang, J. Cui, R. Li, and H. Zhong. A decentralized threshold
credential management with fine-grained authentication for vanets. IEEE
Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 20:5818–583, 2025.
[6] P.-L. Chiu and K.-H. Lee. Threshold visual cryptography schemes with
tagged shares. IEEE Access, 8:111330–111346, 2020.
[7] S. J. Shyu. Threshold visual cryptographic scheme with meaningful shares.
IEEE Signal Processing Letters, 21(12):1521–1525, December 2014.

